# jsminor

Minimal server framework to serve static webpages and open a websocket with clients.

## Installation and Basic Usage

To use jsminor, install it with `npm install`, then import the `startServer` module with:
```
import startServer from 'jsminor'
```

Or import the specific functions you want with:
```
import {startServer, logMsg, wsSend}  from './jsminor.mjs';
```

Then you can use each function needed, for example:
```
logMsg('Starting server');
startServer(null, (msg, ws) => {
	wsSend(ws, 'Server recieved the following message: ' + msg);
});
```

## Starting a Server

Start a webserver with the `startServer()` function. The `startServer()` function takes an optional configuration object as well as a callback function that is called upon recieving a websocket message (see [Recieving Websocket Messages](### Recieving Websocket Messages on the Server), below).

### Server Configuration

The optional config object holds the folowing parameters. Alternatively, any one or more of these paramters can be set with the environment variables specified below. If not supplied, each parameter also has a default value, specified below:

* *optional* **string** `serverName` - the name of the server for internal reference purposes only. If not supplied, the `SERVERNAME` environment variable will be queried. Otherwise, the default name `LocalServer` will be used.
* *optional* **boolean** `https` - if truthy, the Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure protocol will be used. If not supplied, the `HTTPS` environment variable will be queried. Otherwise, the default protocol `http` will be used.
* *optional* **number** `serverPort` - the server port. If not supplied, the `PORT` environment variable will be queried. Otherwise, the default port `12345` will be used.
* *optional* **number** `serverAddress` - the address of the server that can be queried if needed. Note that this port is merely for internal reference and does not affect the actual address. If not supplied, the `SERVERADDRESS` environment variable will be queried. Otherwise, the default address `localhost` will be used.
* *optional* **number** `pingSecs` - the number of seconds between which to ping clients with open websockets. If not supplied, the `PINGSECONDS` environment variable will be queried. Otherwise, the default value `10` will be used.

### Static Files

Files served under the `static` directory will be served to clients when requested.

## Using Websockets

### Recieving Websocket Messages on the Server 

The websocket message callback function (passed to `startServer()`) is called when a websocket message is recieved on the server. The function takes two parameters, `ws` and `dta`.  `ws` is a reference to the open websocket. `dta` is the message recieved. `dta` will be converted to an Object if it is valid JSON; otherwise, it will be a string.

#### Client Websocket Usage

To utilize websockets on the client, open a new websocket with, for example:

```
const skt = new WebSocket(window.location.href.replace('http://', 'ws://').replace('https://', 'wss://'));
```

Then use `skt.onmessage` to specify a callback function to recieve messages, and `skt.send` to send messages. Here is a very simple page demonstrating sending and recieving websocket messages (put in the `static` directory):

```
<html>
<head>
	<title>Example</title>
	<script defer>
		const skt = new WebSocket(window.location.href.replace('http://', 'ws://').replace('https://', 'wss://'));
		skt.onmessage = function(event) {
			document.getElementById('status').innerText = 'Last Message: ' + event.data;
		}
		function sendBtnClick() {
			skt.send(document.getElementById('inpt').value);
		}
	</script>
</head>
<body>
	<p id="status">No Messages Recieved Yet</p>
	<input type="text" id="inpt">
	<button id="sendBtn" onclick="sendBtnClick()">Send</button>
</body>
</html>
```

## Accessing APIs

The server can access external APIs using the `apiRequest()` function. For APIs that require authentication, a `getToken()` function is also included. Both of these functions require an `ApiData` object, that stores settings for the API. Some settings in the ApiData object will be generated by `getToken()` when that function reaches out for authentication data, if needed.

### The `ApiData` Object

An `ApiData` object may have the following properties:

* *required* **string** `baseUrl` - the root url of the api (i.e. `https://api.example.com`)
* *optional* **string** `authTokenPath` - the url path to exchange a code or password for an access token, excluding the baseUrl (i.e. `/oauth2/token`)
* *optional* **string** `authGrantType` - the grant type to use to obtain an access token (i.e. `authorization_code` or `password`)
* *optional* **string** `authUserName` - the username to use when obtaining an access token (typically used only if the access token grant type is `password`)
* *optional* **string** `authSecret` - the access code or password to use when obtaining an access token (typically as password if grant type `password`; or an access code if using grant type `authorization_code`)
* *optional* **string** `authContentType` - the content type to use when exchanging a code or password for an access token (i.e. `application/json`)
* *optional* **string** `clientID` - the client ID to use when obtaining an access token (typically if using grant type `authorization_code`)
* *optional* **string** `clientSecret` - the client secret to use when obtaining an access token (typically if using grant type `authorization_code`)
* *optional* **string** `refreshTokenPath` - the url path to exchange a refresh token for an access token, excluding the baseUrl (i.e. `/oauth2/token`)
* *optional* **string** `refreshContentType` - the content type to use when exchanging a refresh token for an access token (i.e. `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`)
* *optional* **string** `redirectUri` - the URI sent to the authentication server to which the user will be redirected upon authentication (i.e. `urn:ietf:wg:oauth:2.0:oob` for the internal redirect uri)
* *optional* {Object} [token] - the access token, typically in the form `{access_token: "12345", token_type: "bearer", expires_in: 7200, refresh_token: "12345", "scope": "public"}`

### Example API Authentication Flow

The following function will `POST` the data `{test: true}` to the endpoint `/v1/example`. If there is no authentication access token (or if the token has expired), `getToken()` will be called to obtain (or refresh) the token.

```
async function postReq(apiData, data) {
	let reqType = 'GET';
	let headers = {"Content-Type": 'application/json', "Authorization": 'Bearer ' + apiData.token.access_token};
	let response;
	try { response = await apiRequest(apiData, '/v1/example', 'POST', "{test: true}", headers); }
	catch (err) { logMsg('Problem with POST request: ' + err + '. Will try refreshing (or obtaining) Authentication Token...'); }
	if (!response) {
		apiData = await getToken(apiData);
		try { response = await apiRequest(apiData, '/v1/example', 'POST', "{test: true}", headers); }
		catch (err) { logMsg('Problem with POST request after attempting to get Auth Token: ' + err); }
	}
	return response;
*/
```
